README.md, before:

## List of Papers

### Stock-selection/prediction (room for improvements here..!):

[__Support Vector Machine With Adaptive Parameters in Financial Time Series Forecasting__](no link)

[__SUPPORT VECTOR MACHINE FOR REGRESSION AND APPLICATIONS TO FINANCIAL FORECASTING__](no link)

[__Financial time series forecasting using support vector machines__](http://lcsd2.svms.org/finance/Kim2003.pdf)
_Does just what it says. Potentially useful list of features. Discusses tuning the model parameters and risk minimization_

[__A SVM Stock Selection Model within PCA__](http://ac.els-cdn.com/S187705091400461X/1-s2.0-S187705091400461X-main.pdf?_tid=3f9102de-029a-11e7-9dd9-00000aacb361&acdnat=1488824897_21fdcac3bed5579329e7d43e1130efc7)
_Quite poorly written and not particularly interesting, but it's something. Main idea is to use PCA for dimensionality reduction/feature selection_

[__Stock Price Forecasting by Hybrid Machine Learning Techniques__](http://www.iaeng.org/publication/IMECS2009/IMECS2009_pp755-760.pdf)
_A simple ensamble model consisting of Artificial Neural Nets and Decision Trees. Contains references to a plethora of related works. Attempts to rationalize prediction somewhat. _

[__A multiple-kernel support vector regression approach for stock market price forecasting__](https://pdfs.semanticscholar.org/c558/a4396d44666a2b86f1d83348edfdb1f6321d.pdf)
_Not quite so relevant really. Technical. But interesting to see some of the optimization/kernel stuff we touched on in class being used in practice_

### Portfolio Optimization:

[__Using genetic algorithm to support portfolio optimization for index fund management__](http://ac.els-cdn.com/S0957417404001356/1-s2.0-S0957417404001356-main.pdf?_tid=61fc4414-0065-11e7-a298-00000aab0f02&acdnat=1488582289_943bb9d462a446923eaa71d0e4feefa3)

[__Learning to Optimize Profits Beats Predicting Returns —
Comparing Techniques for Financial Portfolio Optimisation__](http://s3.amazonaws.com/academia.edu.documents/30766418/p1681.pdf?AWSAccessKeyId=AKIAIWOWYYGZ2Y53UL3A&Expires=1488585797&Signature=ehSUGaMoFBEG7fmRZGS7m8cmIzg%3D&response-content-disposition=inline%3B%20filename%3DLearning_to_optimize_profits_beats_predi.pdf)

[__Prediction-based portfolio optimization model using neural networks__](http://ac.els-cdn.com/S092523120900040X/1-s2.0-S092523120900040X-main.pdf?_tid=6d254462-0065-11e7-a20b-00000aab0f02&acdnat=1488582308_a7f65e54f4d297427ba5d5b51d3dd8cc)

These two look more like student papers like our own

[__Equity forecast: Predicting long term stock price movement using machine learning__](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1603.00751.pdf)

[__Machine Learning in Stock Price Trend Forecasting__](http://cs229.stanford.edu/proj2013/DaiZhang-MachineLearningInStockPriceTrendForecasting.pdf)

### A few more market-theoretical papers on the fundamental question of prediction

[__Efficient Market Hypothesis and Forecasting__](http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0169207003000128)

[__Forecasting stock market prices: Lessons for forecasters__](http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/016920709290003R)
_A well written and interesting survey á la 1992 of what the deal is_

## Buzzwords++

[__Captial Asset Pricing Model__](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Capital_asset_pricing_model)

[__"The Foundation of Economic Analysis"__](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Foundations_of_Economic_Analysis)
Apparently a classic of the field, I've got a copy booked at the library. 

[__Adaptive Market Hypothesis__](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Adaptive_market_hypothesis)

[__Mean Variance Optimization__](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Modern_portfolio_theory)

[__The Efficient Frontier__](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Efficient_frontier)

Commit message:

Added scripts in the folder ./Algorithms/Juan a long with modifing the file README.md with more references. March 20 2017

README.md, after:

## List of Papers

### Stock-selection/prediction (room for improvements here..!):

[__Support Vector Machine With Adaptive Parameters in Financial Time Series Forecasting__](no link)

[__SUPPORT VECTOR MACHINE FOR REGRESSION AND APPLICATIONS TO FINANCIAL FORECASTING__](no link)

[__Financial time series forecasting using support vector machines__](http://lcsd2.svms.org/finance/Kim2003.pdf)
_Does just what it says. Potentially useful list of features. Discusses tuning the model parameters and risk minimization_

[__A SVM Stock Selection Model within PCA__](http://ac.els-cdn.com/S187705091400461X/1-s2.0-S187705091400461X-main.pdf?_tid=3f9102de-029a-11e7-9dd9-00000aacb361&acdnat=1488824897_21fdcac3bed5579329e7d43e1130efc7)
_Quite poorly written and not particularly interesting, but it's something. Main idea is to use PCA for dimensionality reduction/feature selection_

[__Stock Price Forecasting by Hybrid Machine Learning Techniques__](http://www.iaeng.org/publication/IMECS2009/IMECS2009_pp755-760.pdf)
_A simple ensamble model consisting of Artificial Neural Nets and Decision Trees. Contains references to a plethora of related works. Attempts to rationalize prediction somewhat._ 

[__A multiple-kernel support vector regression approach for stock market price forecasting__](https://pdfs.semanticscholar.org/c558/a4396d44666a2b86f1d83348edfdb1f6321d.pdf)
_Not quite so relevant really. Technical. But interesting to see some of the optimization/kernel stuff we touched on in class being used in practice_

[__Machine Learning Techniques and Use of Event Information for Stock Market Prediction: A Survey and Evaluation](http://ro.uow.edu.au/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=3866&context=commpapers)
_A survey in the use of ML in predicting the stock market. A little bit outdated (2005) but still useful since it has good references and gives an idea
of the state of the art in the use of ML 12 years ago._

[__Stock Market Forecasting Using Hidden Markov Model: A New Approach__](http://s3.amazonaws.com/academia.edu.documents/1904664/5kcoxioksgt4hgw.pdf?AWSAccessKeyId=AKIAIWOWYYGZ2Y53UL3A&Expires=1490002389&Signature=UlQbdgbhnPuf%2BvLr3O7dBi%2FoxrE%3D&response-content-disposition=inline%3B%20filename%3DStock_Market_Forecasting_Using_Hidden_Ma.pdf)
_Some of the few papers I've found where they use somehow Markov Chains (The funny thing is that the way mathematicians model stocks is with first order Markov Chains!)_

### Portfolio Optimization:

[__Using genetic algorithm to support portfolio optimization for index fund management__](http://ac.els-cdn.com/S0957417404001356/1-s2.0-S0957417404001356-main.pdf?_tid=61fc4414-0065-11e7-a298-00000aab0f02&acdnat=1488582289_943bb9d462a446923eaa71d0e4feefa3)

[__Learning to Optimize Profits Beats Predicting Returns —
Comparing Techniques for Financial Portfolio Optimisation__](http://s3.amazonaws.com/academia.edu.documents/30766418/p1681.pdf?AWSAccessKeyId=AKIAIWOWYYGZ2Y53UL3A&Expires=1488585797&Signature=ehSUGaMoFBEG7fmRZGS7m8cmIzg%3D&response-content-disposition=inline%3B%20filename%3DLearning_to_optimize_profits_beats_predi.pdf)

[__Prediction-based portfolio optimization model using neural networks__](http://ac.els-cdn.com/S092523120900040X/1-s2.0-S092523120900040X-main.pdf?_tid=6d254462-0065-11e7-a20b-00000aab0f02&acdnat=1488582308_a7f65e54f4d297427ba5d5b51d3dd8cc)

These two look more like student papers like our own

[__Equity forecast: Predicting long term stock price movement using machine learning__](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1603.00751.pdf)

[__Machine Learning in Stock Price Trend Forecasting__](http://cs229.stanford.edu/proj2013/DaiZhang-MachineLearningInStockPriceTrendForecasting.pdf)

### A few more market-theoretical papers on the fundamental question of prediction

[__Efficient Market Hypothesis and Forecasting__](http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0169207003000128)

[__Forecasting stock market prices: Lessons for forecasters__](http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/016920709290003R)
_A well written and interesting survey á la 1992 of what the deal is_

[__A Theory of Power Law Distribution in Financial Market Fluctuations__](http://www.nature.com/nature/journal/v423/n6937/abs/nature01624.html)
_I think this is an interesting paper, since understing the statistical properties of outliers, might give us a more solid way 
to implement the algorithms._

[__How the Economic Machine Works__](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PHe0bXAIuk0)
_A short video of how the economy works (according to the point of view of a guy that knows what he is talking about)_
## Buzzwords++


[__Captial Asset Pricing Model__](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Capital_asset_pricing_model)

[__"The Foundation of Economic Analysis"__](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Foundations_of_Economic_Analysis)
Apparently a classic of the field, I've got a copy booked at the library. 

[__Adaptive Market Hypothesis__](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Adaptive_market_hypothesis)

[__Mean Variance Optimization__](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Modern_portfolio_theory)

[__The Efficient Frontier__](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Efficient_frontier)
